MTA-2288: Adding Custom Rule for Javax package to Known Issues (#865)
windup/windup-documentation: docs/topics/mta-rn-known-issues-7-0-0.adoc

This warning, appropriate for the first assessment, incorrectly reappears on subsequent reassessments, suggesting that the application is still inheriting its assessment, even after it has been overridden. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-1825[MTA-1825]

.Custom rule for javax.{*} package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file

> In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location`, should not end in `.{\*}` but should end in `{*}`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-2000[MTA-2000]

Author: The issue is caused by Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location` and end in `.{*}`, do not work as expected.
```suggestion
In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause is that Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location` and end in `.{*}`, do not function as expected. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-2000[MTA-2000]
```

> To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{\*}` and location `IMPORT`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}` and the location changed to `PACKAGE`, as in the following example:.

Author: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{\*}` and location `IMPORT`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}` and the location changed to `PACKAGE`, as in the following example.
```

> To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{\*}` and location `IMPORT`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}` and the location changed to `PACKAGE`, as in the following example:.

Reviewer: The pattern that should be changed is `{\*}` 
(missing slash)

This warning, appropriate for the first assessment, incorrectly reappears on subsequent reassessments, suggesting that the application is still inheriting its assessment, even after it has been overridden. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-1825[MTA-1825]

.Custom rule for javax.{*} package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file

In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location`, should not end in `.{\*}` but should end in `{*}`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-2000[MTA-2000]

> To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{\*}` and location `IMPORT`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}` and the location changed to `PACKAGE`.

Author: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{\*}` and location `IMPORT`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}` and the location changed to `PACKAGE`, as in the following example:.
```

> In the following example XML rule, note that the `when` condition is `javaclass references ="javax.{*}"`. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

This warning, appropriate for the first assessment, incorrectly reappears on subsequent reassessments, suggesting that the application is still inheriting its assessment, even after it has been overridden. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-1825[MTA-1825]

> .Custom rule for javax.* package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file

Reviewer: javax.{*}

> .Custom rule for javax.* package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file

Author: ```suggestion
.Custom rule for javax.{*} package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file
```

> In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location`, should not end in `.{\*}` but `{\*}`. 

Author: ```suggestion
In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location`, should not end in `.{\*}` but `{\*}`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-2000[MTA-2000]
```

> In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is that Java search patterns, which use `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE` as `location`, should not end in `.{*}` but just `{*}`. 

Reviewer: @pranavgaikwad I believe there should not be a comma here?
...Java search patterns, which use...

Author: No, there is always a comma before which when it is not at the start of a sentence, as it is ancillary to the sentence

Reviewer: I see, cool

Reviewer: Actually, it still does not make sense to me :)
The which sentence here describes the "Java search patterns which end on {*}, must use..."

> In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is that Java search patterns, which use `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE` as `location`, should not end in `.{*}` but just `{*}`. 

Reviewer: If I understand the root cause correctly, this is the correct version:
"The root cause of this issue is that Java search patterns which end in `{*}` must use `PACKAGE` as location, not `IMPORT`."

> In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is that Java search patterns, which use `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE` as `location`, should not end in `.{*}` but just `{*}`. 

Author: ```suggestion
In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location`, should not end in `.{*}` but `{*}`. 
```

Looking at what you said

Reviewer: LGTM :)

> In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location`, should not end in `.{\*}` but `{\*}`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-2000[MTA-2000]

Author: ```suggestion
In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location`, should not end in `.{\*}` but should end in `{*}`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-2000[MTA-2000]
```

> In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is Java search patterns that use `IMPORT` as `location`, should not end in `.{\*}` but should end in `{*}`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-2000[MTA-2000]

Reviewer: Rules file is not triggered for `<location>IMPORT</location>`

@pranavgaikwad could you please confirm that:
The root cause of this issue is - Java search patterns that use end in {*} must use PACKAGE as location, not IMPORT

Author: @pranavgaikwad - please could you confirm

Thanks

Reviewer 2: @mguetta1  Isn't that what we are saying below in the solution? i.e. change the location to PACKAGE

> To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{*}` and location one of `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}`.

Reviewer: If I understand the root cause correctly, this is the correct version:
"To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{*}` and location `IMPORT`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}` and location to `PACKAGE`.

> To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{*}` and location one of `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}`.

Author: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{*}` and location `IMPORT`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}` and the location changed to `PACKAGE`.
```

> To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{*}` and location `IMPORT`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}` and the location changed to `PACKAGE`.

Author: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{\*}` and location `IMPORT`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}` and the location changed to `PACKAGE`.
```

Author: ![image](https://github.com/windup/windup-documentation/assets/106804821/5688f32f-ea60-4821-92ce-0c14ebe38251)
Using backtick as escape

> In the following example XML rule, note that the `when` condition is `javaclass references` ="javax.{*}"`. 

Author: ```suggestion
In the following example XML rule, note that the `when` condition is `javaclass references ="javax.{*}"`. 
```

> If you amend this to `javaclass references="javax{*}"`, the rule converts correctly.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: It looks redundant to me and it is missing the change from import to package

I recommend to omit this and end the previous line with "as shown in the following example"

Reviewer: Clarifying:
lines 44-46 can be deleted

            This ruleset evaluates whether a custom target can be used within a custom rule
        </description>
        <dependencies>
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-javaee,3.0.0.Final" />
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-java,3.0.0.Final" />
        </dependencies>
        <targetTechnology id="phil" versionRange="[7,8)" />
    </metadata>
    <rules>
        <rule id="javax-package-custom-target-00001">
            <when>
                <javaclass references="javax{*}">
                    <location>PACKAGE</location>
                </javaclass>
            </when>
            <perform>
                <hint title="CUSTOM RULE for javax.* package import" effort="1" category-id="potential">
                    <message>`javax.*` packages must be renamed to `jakarta.*` for Jakarta EE9 compatibility.</message>
                    <link title="Renamed Packages" href="https://github.com/wildfly-extras/batavia/blob/master/impl/ecl/src/main/resources/org/wildfly/extras/transformer/eclipse/jakarta-renames.properties"/>
                </hint>
            </perform>
        </rule>
    </rules>
</ruleset>
----
====

> The suggested workaround is to use the following YAML file instead. The YAML file is the result of a conversion from XML. 

Author: ```suggestion

```

        <dependencies>
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-javaee,3.0.0.Final" />
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-java,3.0.0.Final" />
        </dependencies>
        <targetTechnology id="phil" versionRange="[7,8)" />
    </metadata>
    <rules>
        <rule id="javax-package-custom-target-00001">
            <when>
                <javaclass references="javax{*}">
                    <location>PACKAGE</location>
                </javaclass>
            </when>
            <perform>
                <hint title="CUSTOM RULE for javax.* package import" effort="1" category-id="potential">
                    <message>`javax.*` packages must be renamed to `jakarta.*` for Jakarta EE9 compatibility.</message>
                    <link title="Renamed Packages" href="https://github.com/wildfly-extras/batavia/blob/master/impl/ecl/src/main/resources/org/wildfly/extras/transformer/eclipse/jakarta-renames.properties"/>
                </hint>
            </perform>
        </rule>
    </rules>
</ruleset>
----
====

The suggested workaround is to use the following YAML file instead. The YAML file is the result of a conversion from XML. 

> 
> 
> The file is the conversion result from XML to YAML format, with the line `location: IMPORT` was changed to `location: package`.

Author: ```suggestion
```

This warning, appropriate for the first assessment, incorrectly reappears on subsequent reassessments, suggesting that the application is still inheriting its assessment, even after it has been overridden. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-1825[MTA-1825]

.Custom rule for javax.* package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file

> 

Reviewer 2: This is a specific example taken from our internal test cases. I think the text here can be generelized. The root cause of this issue is that - the Java search patterns that use IMPORT or PACKAGE as location, should not end in `.{*}` but just `{*}`. In order to solve this, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}`. We can then use this specific example to explain the solution. Notice   `<javaclass references="javax.{*}">` in the example XML rule. If the users fix that to `<javaclass references="javax{*}">`, the rule will be converted correctly.

Reviewer: @anarnold97 Not sure about this sentence:
```The root cause of this issue is - Java search patterns that use end in .{*} must use PACKAGE as location, not IMPORT```

In the reality:
 The root cause of this issue is - Java search patterns that use end in **{*}** must use PACKAGE as location, not IMPORT

In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, the XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. However, when using `javax-to-jakarta-package` as a custom rules file, it is not triggered after conversion

> 

Author: In the following example XML rule, note that `when` condition is `javaclass references` ="javax.{*}"`. 

If you amend this to `javaclass references="javax{*}"`, the rule converts correctly.

> 

Reviewer: I recommend to omit this and to end the previous line with "as shown in the following example"

.To view the javax-package-custom-target.windup.xml, click here.
[%collapsible%closed]
====
[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<ruleset xmlns="http://windup.jboss.org/schema/jboss-ruleset" id="javax-package"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://windup.jboss.org/schema/jboss-ruleset http://windup.jboss.org/schema/jboss-ruleset/windup-jboss-ruleset.xsd">
    <metadata>
        <description>
            This ruleset evaluates whether a custom target can be used within a custom rule
        </description>
        <dependencies>
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-javaee,3.0.0.Final" />
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-java,3.0.0.Final" />
        </dependencies>
        <targetTechnology id="phil" versionRange="[7,8)" />
    </metadata>
    <rules>
        <rule id="javax-package-custom-target-00001">
            <when>

>                 <javaclass references="javax.{*}">

Reviewer 2: This line here causes the issue `javax.{*}`

>                     <location>IMPORT</location>

Reviewer 2: Change IMPORT to PACKAGE

                </javaclass>
            </when>
            <perform>
                <hint title="CUSTOM RULE for javax.* package import" effort="1" category-id="potential">
                    <message>`javax.*` packages must be renamed to `jakarta.*` for Jakarta EE9 compatibility.</message>
                    <link title="Renamed Packages" href="https://github.com/wildfly-extras/batavia/blob/master/impl/ecl/src/main/resources/org/wildfly/extras/transformer/eclipse/jakarta-renames.properties"/>
                </hint>
            </perform>
        </rule>
    </rules>
</ruleset>
----
====

> The suggested workaround is to convert the XML file to a YAML file. The TAML file is the result of a conversion from XML. 

Author: ```suggestion
The suggested workaround is to use the following YAML file instead. The YAML file is the result of a conversion from XML. 
```

This warning, appropriate for the first assessment, incorrectly reappears on subsequent reassessments, suggesting that the application is still inheriting its assessment, even after it has been overridden. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-1825[MTA-1825]

.Custom rule for javax.* package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file

In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, the XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. However, when using `javax-to-jakarta-package` as a custom rules file, it is not triggered after conversion

> For example, when using `javax-package-custom-target.windup.xml` as a custom rules file, it is not triggered after conversion.

Reviewer: @anarnold97 please remove this line

> For example, when using `javax-package-custom-target.windup.xml` as a custom rules file, it is not triggered after conversion.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> .To view the javax-package-custom-target.windup.xml, click (here).

Author: It is standard formatting for RH
```suggestion
.To view the javax-package-custom-target.windup.xml, click here.
```

            This ruleset evaluates whether a custom target can be used within a custom rule
        </description>
        <dependencies>
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-javaee,3.0.0.Final" />
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-java,3.0.0.Final" />
        </dependencies>
        <targetTechnology id="phil" versionRange="[7,8)" />
    </metadata>
    <rules>
        <rule id="javax-package-custom-target-00001">
            <when>
                <javaclass references="javax.{*}">
                    <location>IMPORT</location>
                </javaclass>
            </when>
            <perform>
                <hint title="CUSTOM RULE for javax.* package import" effort="1" category-id="potential">
                    <message>`javax.*` packages must be renamed to `jakarta.*` for Jakarta EE9 compatibility.</message>
                    <link title="Renamed Packages" href="https://github.com/wildfly-extras/batavia/blob/master/impl/ecl/src/main/resources/org/wildfly/extras/transformer/eclipse/jakarta-renames.properties"/>
                </hint>
            </perform>
        </rule>
    </rules>
</ruleset>
----
====

> The suggested workaround is to convert the XML file to a YAML file

Author: ```suggestion
The suggested workaround is to convert the XML file to a YAML file. The TAML file is the result of a conversion from XML. 
```

> In this example, use the following YAML file instead.

Reviewer: "The suggested workaround is to use the following YAML file instead."

> .To view the 01-javax-package-custom-target.windup.yaml, click (here).

Author: ```suggestion
.To view the 01-javax-package-custom-target.windup.yaml, click here.
```

In the following example XML rule, note that the `when` condition is `javaclass references` ="javax.{*}"`. 

If you amend this to `javaclass references="javax{*}"`, the rule converts correctly.

.To view the javax-package-custom-target.windup.xml, click here.
[%collapsible%closed]
====
[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<ruleset xmlns="http://windup.jboss.org/schema/jboss-ruleset" id="javax-package"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://windup.jboss.org/schema/jboss-ruleset http://windup.jboss.org/schema/jboss-ruleset/windup-jboss-ruleset.xsd">
    <metadata>
        <description>
            This ruleset evaluates whether a custom target can be used within a custom rule
        </description>
        <dependencies>
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-javaee,3.0.0.Final" />
            <addon id="org.jboss.windup.rules,windup-rules-java,3.0.0.Final" />
        </dependencies>
        <targetTechnology id="phil" versionRange="[7,8)" />
    </metadata>
    <rules>
        <rule id="javax-package-custom-target-00001">
            <when>

>                 <javaclass references="javax.{*}">

Author: ```suggestion
                <javaclass references="javax{*}">
```

>                     <location>IMPORT</location>

Author: ```suggestion
                    <location>PACKAGE</location>
```

                </javaclass>
            </when>
            <perform>
                <hint title="CUSTOM RULE for javax.* package import" effort="1" category-id="potential">
                    <message>`javax.*` packages must be renamed to `jakarta.*` for Jakarta EE9 compatibility.</message>
                    <link title="Renamed Packages" href="https://github.com/wildfly-extras/batavia/blob/master/impl/ecl/src/main/resources/org/wildfly/extras/transformer/eclipse/jakarta-renames.properties"/>
                </hint>
            </perform>
        </rule>
    </rules>
</ruleset>
----
====

> The suggested workaround is to use the following YAML file instead. The YAML file is the result of a conversion from XML. 

Author: @pranavgaikwad && @mguetta1 - have implemented changes suggested.

However, Pranav's changes look like the render the second codeblock redundant

Am I ok to delete?

Reviewer: Yes, no need the yaml file example

> In this example, use the following YAML file instead.
> 
> .To view the 01-javax-package-custom-target.windup.yaml, click here.
> [%collapsible%closed]
> ====
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> - category: potential
>   customVariables: []
>   description: CUSTOM RULE for javax.* package import
>   effort: 1
>   labels:
>   - konveyor.io/target=phil7
>   - konveyor.io/target=phil
>   - konveyor.io/source
>   links:
>   - title: Renamed Packages
>     url: https://github.com/wildfly-extras/batavia/blob/master/impl/ecl/src/main/resources/org/wildfly/extras/transformer/eclipse/jakarta-renames.properties
>   message: '`javax.*` packages must be renamed to `jakarta.*` for Jakarta EE9 compatibility.'
>   ruleID: javax-package-custom-target-00001
>   when:
>     java.referenced:
>       location: package
>       pattern: javax*
> ----
> ====

Author: ```suggestion
```

This warning, appropriate for the first assessment, incorrectly reappears on subsequent reassessments, suggesting that the application is still inheriting its assessment, even after it has been overridden. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-1825[MTA-1825]

.Custom rule for javax.* package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file

In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is that Java search patterns, which use `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE` as `location`, should not end in `.{*}` but just `{*}`. 

To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{*}` and location one of `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}`.

In the following example XML rule, note that the `when` condition is `javaclass references` ="javax.{*}"`. 

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

This warning, appropriate for the first assessment, incorrectly reappears on subsequent reassessments, suggesting that the application is still inheriting its assessment, even after it has been overridden. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-1825[MTA-1825]

.Custom rule for javax.* package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file

In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is that Java search patterns, which use `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE` as `location`, should not end in `.{*}` but just `{*}`. 

To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{*}` and location one of `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}`.

> In the following example XML rule, note that when condition is javaclass references ="javax.{*}"`.

Author: ```suggestion
In the following example XML rule, note that `when` condition is `javaclass references` ="javax.{*}"`. 

```

This warning, appropriate for the first assessment, incorrectly reappears on subsequent reassessments, suggesting that the application is still inheriting its assessment, even after it has been overridden. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-1825[MTA-1825]

.Custom rule for javax.* package import is not triggered when uploaded as an XML file

In {ProductShortName} 7.0.0, some XML custom rule files are converted to the new YAML format during analysis. The root cause of this issue is that Java search patterns, which use `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE` as `location`, should not end in `.{*}` but just `{*}`. 

To resolve this issue, whenever a custom rule has a pattern ending in `.{*}` and location one of `IMPORT` or `PACKAGE`, the pattern `.{*}` can be changed to `{*}`.

> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
